Thank you again. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you so much. You are welcome, everyone.
Again, we are going to show up, go to show, breathe, and teachings from the Dharma of Buddha.
And for that reason, again, we are going to reactivate our spiritual motivation of the joy and
appreciation,
vastness, motivation of the Bodhijata, and then realization of the vision of the Vaidyama sitting,
of the free readiness of our perfect realization, trying to bring all those as much as we can,
and with those with our motivation, then we reflect on the teachings.
The teaching that we have been talking about, again, is Guru's teaching, His Holiness,
Jyabhir Munirumaji teaching, as well as instructors to the 14th ones.
We are following that teaching, and I am going to let details of each point,
because, basically, all of us, this Mayo force, thought that if we all heard teaching from many
great masters,
as well as we read many books, but all those are so good, which is known as the starting of the
Buddhism, Buddha teaching.
And then, along with that, I am sure you all did, or you all did some reading of contemplation on
those,
which is also wonderful. Those are known as the wisdom that comes from the study,
the wisdom that comes from the contemplation, contemplating.
Now, what we need, we have to observe with that our knowledge, our understanding of the teaching
into heart,
and activating the realization. Dharma has to be mingled with the mind.
It is not just that Dharma has to be intellectual status. Dharma has to be mingled to the heart.
When you mingled the Dharma to the heart, what is the teaching? As we join, or we pray many times,
may my realization will mature my own mind. We have to mature our mind.
For that reason, the great teacher, Buddha said, "Tame our mind, tame your mind."
"Tame your mind" means mature our mind.
Birthday time, our mind is not matured, and our mind is not tamed.
Why? Because of all the different negative emotions.
We went those quite few details, and again, of course, we all know.
That negative emotion is hovering in our mental state always.
Tendence is ignorance. Tendence is grasping and clinging.
Now we have to change that, try to change that.
You know, to what? The more natural positive mind.
And that, when we try to do that, that is known as really practicing Dharma.
You see, Dharma is not coming from outside someone, according to Buddhism.
Dharma is something we activate in our own nature.
Kindness, compassion, love, your wisdom, those are the values we need.
So therefore, in order to do this, to make more that strong and more tangible, more rooted in our
heart,
that is known as practicing, practicing, or meditating, and practicing.
That is also known as then following the path of the teachings, path of truth.
We are making many times that all teachings can be summarized into the whole novel through this.
Suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, those we wish.
Those are samsaras.
Suffering truth, cause of suffering truth is samsara.
Now we like to change that to the neurons.
In order to do it in Nirvana, we have to follow the path of truth.
Path of truth is also same as another terminology, is good karma.
It is good things.
Good karma is the process of following the path of truth.
Now it will go for the path of truth, what is the teaching of the samsara?
You have to be thinking of the benefit of the Naranas, or the enlightenment, or the benefit of the
spiritual qualities.
Dharma, Dharma is again, I said so many times, and we all know, is our nature of the mind.
Love and kindness is Dharma. Compassion is Dharma.
Wisdom is Dharma.
All combination of love and compassion, wisdom, those are really known as Dharma.
When we cultivate that in the mind, in the heart, and the activity, that is known as practicing the
Dharma.
And then, of course, gracious teacher, kindness teacher, Buddha, kind of a man, more simple, more
easy,
that we can target, that he put very beautiful guidelines, and follow those instructions,
then really we will discover our inner nature.
And that is, then what it does, it will remove the difficulty tuples.
All the difficulty tuples that we go through, it will be put in part.
It will play with that.
We will gain more wisdom, knowledge, and understand, more openness of mind.
And then at the same time, more love, more kindness, and compassion.
All that will come.
Even there may be some difficulty tuples that come up there, but we have more, better understanding
,
knowledge, and wisdom, skills, to solve all those problems so nicely, easily.
Not just that, but we will transform those tuples into the practice part,
to activate more of our courage and commitment, confidence.
Use that.
As, for example, these days, we are using this situation as a circumstance.
Many of us, as a personal retreat, group retreat, all virtue retreat.
We all know using those skillful means.
Means to activate it, what is it?
To activate it, to let it go, to bring true vision of really our inner quality,
of the beautiful quality of love, and compassion, devotion, and connection to the Buddha Dharma San
gha.
And feel the meaning of life, more calm, more peaceful, not writing all the time.
We are doing those things.
Those old, beautiful tools will come.
For example, this time, the situation is so kind of very old,
kind of tight up and close to everything.
But if there is a Dharma, then we can use it as retreat, personal retreat.
Each time, those great masters practice retreat on the mountain, in hermitage.
That's what they call it.
The kind of hermitage is made because of busyness,
not allowing to grasp the relaxed state of mind and discover our inner realization.
For that reason, they go to the hermitage.
But in these days, even the situation, the circumstances are allowing them.
They are created there, even in the city.
We are hermitage in a way.
Which is according to the Buddha's point of view,
is really we are taking meaningful lives, meaningful lives, taking advantage of this,
something that we use in that,
and to grow and develop our loving kindness, compassion, our body together.
It's a wonderful situation.
For that reason, the great Master Moojima said,
and one of his teachings said,
"When difficulty troubles or the heart situation fails,
it allows me to do the practice, to meditate.
So therefore, I am thankful to those obstacles, the heart things."
He let many verses of that one after another, he thanked,
to all those difficulty troubles.
So when we looked at all those great Masters who got high in their realizations,
that they all went big in the tunnels.
Many difficulties, troubles, hearts, but they turned that into practice,
and turned into dharma, that they become more correct,
more commitment, more confidence, more passion,
then truly they become the winner in the samsara, they become the beacon.
They filled their heart with love, compassion, joy, and peaceful.
And they radiated that energy of love and compassion to all the living beings.
They are not really depressed and can't resent the force,
and can't be all blaming them, always calm, peaceful, love.
That's what is known as courageous ones or the bodhisattvas.
So in order to do this, thinking of that, those all come provided by the practicing dharma.
That is really what is all developed from the dharma,
all is developed from the discovery, inner quality, or the beauty of our own nature.
That is really what happened.
For that reason, always in the teaching making,
in order to do that, then it is always important to have qualified teachers.
Qualified teachers are important.
The other teacher is important to every knowledge, every status.
Even your genius, still you need teaching.
There is no historicals.
I think maybe any mankind, the gain, the knowledge without any teachers.
Doesn't matter, knowledge of samsara, knowledge of the dharma,
all they gain, somebody they have to have some teacher,
some personal kind of like assistant or inspirations from others.
That activated those genius kind of so suddenly, so quickly.
Maybe they don't, not maybe, they don't, those genius don't have to go hard
starting in this long time, but something such small cliques have to happen
with personal inspiration and contact.
That's how, and therefore they are always in the teaching.
See, the teacher is so important.
To read, until the Buddha, according to Buddhism, you need teacher, always, person.
Teacher is also in Buddhism known as spiritual friend.
It's not something that is boss or something kind of like potatoes
or something kind of like celiac watches, but it's personal friend.
You are personal friend, you're going to get along the path, along the journey
with love and with respect and the appreciation to each other
and moving forward, to the enlightenment.
And therefore, that teacher, for that reason, always said it's important.
For that reason, I talked really about, again, about the teachers.
Now, if we're talking to the teachers, generally, there is a variety of the teachers
in the dance, but it comes to summarize what the teaching said.
There are three kinds of teachers we can summarize.
The ordinary teachers, and the related teachers, or the bodhisattva teachers,
and the Buddha.
Those are the three kinds of principal teachers,
ordinary teachers in a debate called social theories, regular average things.
But still, these all need qualification, particularly the ordinary teachers.
Collaboration, those are the greatest teachers.
Buddha mentioned all the different teachings, so many.
And as well as all the great masters, also mentioned the collaboration of teachers.
One, I'm not really making it.
But I go really, really, really of those qualifications.
Or maybe, yes, two different.
Two, our goal.
Two.
One is our goal according to the international qualifications.
And the other is the average of the Mahayana qualifications, as I explained.
Very simple words.
Firstly, in other qualifications, in the teaching set,
one holds three triangles, and attends all the nectals.
So three and four, that makes four.
Three triangles, one, two, three.
And the whole nectals, four.
And then the fifth one is one whose very responsibilities.
Another one is, I think, six, right?
Six is now one who also understands the nectals.
And then the seventh is one who also knows the ritual ceremonies.
Or ritual, ritual implements, or ritual.
And the eighth one is one who has linear realizations.
So those are the eight principal qualities of the, as explained, inner nectals.
So what are those first three triangles?
Triangles of the will.
Will.
Will that understanding of the old relative are as pure as divine mandalas.
And of that, in a relative, absolute level is completely as emptiness,
pure from the beginning, or great economic status.
So realization of the purity and the equanimity in the United Union State,
that is the will.
Will, that is the first triangle.
Second triangle is meditation.
Traleo of meditation.
Meditation of the visualization, meditation of the completion stage.
United target again understands.
Under target.
That triangle holds.
So that means also has realization of something.
Third triangle is conduct.
Traleo of the conduct.
And keeping up the general and the particular Samayas.
Samayas.
And that is the third triangle.
And the fourth one who holds the nectar.
Fourth one is the nectar.
I also translate as nectar.
Otherwise, also in the teaching, say the dream of the river.
Dream.
D-A-M-P, I believe.
Dream of the river.
So river of the lineage teaching who hold, whole lineage river.
All the empowerments, transmissions, blessings.
Those who hold the river, that one you hold.
Or the nectar.
The fifth one is, is the responsibilities.
Responsibility of the keeping, not neglecting of the Vedayana teaching.
Same time neglecting those who are interested, devoted students or practitioners.
Helping and supporting, keeping up that.
That is the fifth one.
The sixth one is understanding of the Tantalas.
Meaning of the Tantalas, what means Tantalas.
And also their detailed teachings and explaining of the Tantalas teachings.
Or one who have already explained the teachings.
And the seventh is ritual ceremonies.
Or the ritual of it, such as young girls or orphans, murderers.
And then all the different implements of the Vedayana teachings.
And also know that.
Or the pyrabudyas.
Retraining different orphans, all of them.
The final one is one who hold leading teaching and got some realizations.
Realizations of the pit instructions.
Something warm, calm, peaceful, love, kindness, compassion.
Matured their mind and heart and gentle.
And followed again exactly the instruction.
What they teach one thing and do something.
No.
Kind of line up what they say and what they do.
What they're teaching, what they're doing.
Kind of line up pretty much.
Those are explained.
The qualifications of the Inner Tantals.
Again there is so many teachings.
For example, Buddha gave teachings from age 35 until age 81 or 82.
So that means over 45 years, Buddha gave the teachings.
But last, Buddha gave in the celestial realms.
That maybe we do, not maybe, we didn't see things.
Only highly designated, highly enlightened beings ever to receive those teachings.
So those old teachings has so many detailed teachings and teachers also qualification for teachers.
And then the commentaries of the great masters explain also so many details.
Because that's how the lineage teachings are kept as authentic and fresh exactly as it started.
From time of the Buddha, until now, lineage teachings.
Teaching of the greatest kindness teacher of the Buddha is not spoiled.
Not deluded.
Not created.
The person that I put in it, deluded as like anointing.
But she was. All kept so impressed, intact and so nugget and so blessed and so powerful.
Five.
Therefore, the qualifications of the teachers explain every of those teachings.
Both the Buddha's teachings, scripture and as well as common truths.
Every way.
So what I say today, Inner Tantal is some old, I mean just one of those teachings.
In reality, it encompasses everything.
It's both nugget or Inner Tantal.
It also can be applied to the Sutra of Teaching.
And as well as the Pundit Buddha's teaching.
And in Mahayana, Sutra of Mahayana Teaching.
And all Mahayana Teaching can be applied.
So this is what goes up.
The qualifications of the teacher.
And how, okay.
And then, the great master Chantadeva.
Chantadeva summarized into very simple one.
And he said,
The spiritual friends of the Mahayana teachings.
Mahayana is one who has expert knowledge.
Knowledge of Mahayana teachings.
And never give up the vows of the bodhisattva, even the cost of life.
These two, who had understood perfect meaning of the Mahayana teaching.
That is the two simple part, true qualification of the masters.
So that means, expert of the Mahayana teaching has highlighted that.
But same time, expert of all the teachings of the great Master Chantadeva,
that have some knowledge, some understanding.
And then, have the vows, giving up all the vows.
That means bodhisattva vows, what vows the bodhisattvas.
As I mentioned other day, of course, we all know.
We all know that.
Those are known as the...
The vows that will stop appropriating all the naked witness.
There is three vows of the bodhisattva, samarayas.
Vows that will stop all the naked witness.
One. Second is, vows that will gather all the virtues,
all the dharma, all the virtues.
Vows that will perform all beneficial activities.
Those are the three vows of the principal one.
All vows of the wishing bodhisattva.
Vows of the actualizing bodhisattva.
Keeping up that.
So that is simplified that.
That means, it is also all best of the right.
Best of the bodhisattva.
Never giving up the loving kindness.
Never giving up the compassion.
Never giving up the wisdom of the wisdom, combined that.
And then when you have that, when you keep the love,
when you keep the compassion, how that teacher will be,
or how that spiritual friend will be.
More calm, more peaceful, more loving,
more caring, more concerning.
And gentle, daunted earth, not evil-boosting,
not creating any personal creation, these and that things,
kind of performing all different things.
Really daunted earth, mingling with every individualist.
But yet, keeping those all beautiful qualities
and the benefit of all the sentiments with polite kindness,
compassion, respect, that is what these masters are,
what this spiritual friend gave him.
That's what the teaching said.
Kalyan matra, I think it's asked.
That is what it is.
So those are known as, when you have those,
those are called applicatic teachings.
Generating the teaching said, this for example,
ordinary teacher, I divide it into three.
Ordinary or social give him an ordinary spiritual friend.
And the Bodhisattva teacher and the Buddha, those three.
Ordinary teacher is not completely free from all the errors and mistakes.
Ordinary teacher is not completely,
every all the good qualities are completed, actually like that.
Ordinary teacher means not, he is a hunger man.
He is still woke up on enlightenment.
He can have all the different mistakes and errors,
still he is an obscure being.
But yet, he can help us, inspire us and support us to action.
We will not have the capability to see the enlightened beings as teacher now.
So for our capabilities, it's been practical.
And we like to have the perfect teacher as the Buddha or the enlightened beings.
We have to wait for a long time.
Maybe we never going to get unless practice.
What did the teaching say?
The Sambokaya teachers only can see those 10th or the Ed Bumi Bodhisattvas.
Many everyday people, such as us, like us, us, or me, or like us,
we not yet on the relief in the enlightened, the realization, big realization.
How we can see Buddha immediately?
How we can see the Sambokaya teacher?
How we can see Mejushi?
How we can see the Garpayama Sambokaya immediately?
We don't have any capabilities.
So we have to do.
Now what we have to do? We have to do practical.
More with the common sense, according to our capabilities,
let's build up, build up the realization.
Then we can elevate it.
And the teaching says, when you got high realization,
those high realization beings will be easy.
You will be easy in those high realization beings.
Again, and those are great masters we read in life stories.
They received teachings from the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas,
this is one after another, all that thing.
Because their high realization can help communication and help their capabilities.
For four hours, we just have to follow what we can do.
That is more safer, more practical, and more nicer.
And that's how we can develop.
So feed contact with the teacher and then receive the teachings.
And following the path.
That is known as then we begin to process,
changing the over-process of the,
and turning the path, and turning the one.
And among that, first one is, then when we do,
is then take raffles.
Raffles. With that, raffles is the foundation
of the entirely path truth.
Or raffles is the ground of the path truth.
From there, we reach the, then from there,
we will go to the ground, or the path to the enlightenment.
And that's it. Then we can, from that,
we begin to change our karmas.
From that, we begin to change the direction of samsara.
That's called the teaching.
That is what I will teach.
And that is my great talk for today.
And thank you so much everyone again for participating.
Thank you.
Thank you very much everyone.
Again, thank you.
Thank you.
Again, we do short meditation as we do.